# Playtesting the game
Playing through the game and writing observations about improvements and current player experience.

## Playtesting @ 3.10.2022
### Playtest 1 - Miika
1. Camera is very close, feeling claustrofobic andf hard to see and react to environment.
   1. Updated camera to be further and slightly adjusted the angle
2. Hard to see the sword to pick up
3. Picking up health effect doesn't give proper feedback, doesn't feel impactful
4. Hovering over player is considered as invalid action, making movement unresponsive sometimes
5. Dead enemies just disappear, feeling janky
   1. Fade enemies or sink them to ground?
6. Non-homing projectiles are not flying towards the direction that shooter is facing
   1. Fixed for arrows, WIP for spells
7. Casting spell stops attacking and player doesn't continue attacking
8. Healthbar UI prevents clicking through, making movement harder sometimes
9. Enemies give up immediately after player exits aggro range
10. Player can just shoot enemies from range without aggroing them
11. Death screen doesn't trigger when player dies
    1.  Fixed
12. Player can't get through level without healing spell
    1.  Dies at boss
13. Playing through the left side of the village and clearing the enemies gets player to 1280 / 1600 xp
    1.  Desired is that player would be level 2 in the end of the level with sword and would unlocked healing spell

### Playtest 2 - Miika
1. Damage texts are spawned but never destroyed
   1. Fixed

## Playtesting @ 8.10.2022
### Playtest 1 - Miika
1. Bunch of warnings from tree colliders
2. Casting spell stops current action so player doesn't resume attacking after casting
   1. Makes combat feel clunky
3. Fireball casted from point blank range is destroyed immediately and it's hard to see that I used the ability
4. Fireball doesn't have muzzle or hit effect, making fireball feel really weak
5. Heal with 2 s CD and no resource cost is OP and makes the level really easy
6. No animation from casting abilities, making them feel really weak and not impactful
7. Hit level 2 after clearing the guards in town before town square
8. Can get to the end of level
   1. Level 2, 480 / 3200 xp
   2. Too easy with current heal spell, needs resouce cost
   3. Equipped sword
9. Currently no purpose to go to beach when heal ability is enabled from the beginning
10. Not possible to see when abilities are available again
11. Not possible to see what abilities are available
    1.  Initially fixed
12. Not possible to see what abilities do
13. Abilities don't have their own CD, their CD is based on when was any last ability used.
14. It's hard sometimes to click the enemies when trying to attack
15. Player doesn't get feedback about how much they were healed

**Problems:**
1. Level is too easy, no tension building up
   1. Player has unlimited healing
   2. Player can kill enemies from far away without enemies aggroing
2. Combat feels clunky, not precise, fair and interesting
   1. Player doesn't continue attacking while targeting ability
   2. Player doesn't continue attacking after using ability
   3. Fireball doesn't feel powerful and impactful